Jordan Perone
Henry Jones


Data:
The Image: 2D Arrays
Saving/loading images: File IO
Choice to continue and menu options: Programming Basics
Image data: Variables
Image data manipulation: Formatted IO
Using Menu Options: Functions
Information through Functions: Pass By Address
Use of multiple instances and decisions: Iteration and Selection



Image Manipulation:
The program should operate with the conditions of images and use the data given from images to manipulate the image in different ways chosen by the user. These changes vary from dimming, brightening, rotating and cropping these images. The function should also display to the user the change they have selected to do on the image that they have loaded or the current image on the program as well as whether or not they would like to save the image the way it is. The program should also ask the user whether or not they would like to continue with the image processing.


main (): 4/26
Data: Image 2D array. Variables for changing the value of the image.
Functionality: Load a file of data or use the current data in which the program is linked. Use selection to determine a choice to determine a function for the user. If the user chooses to edit, load, display or exit the program, the main will determine it and jump into the corresponding program as well as display the options within edit.


displayMenu(): 4/24 Henry Jones
Input Parameters: None
Returned Output: User Choice in the Menu
Functionality: Display the menu options such as Edit, Display Image, Exit, Load Image to the screen. Allow the user to pick a choice.


arrayCount(): 4/24 Jordan Perone
Input Parameters: FILE Pointer, 2D array, Rows Count pointer, Columns Count pointer
Returned Output: 2D array and the pointers back to the main
Functionality: This function should count all of the characters within the image as well as store them in a 2D array before the user has selected to edit the image. 



dim() 4/24 Henry Jones
Input Parameters: 2D array, rows, count  and columns variables
Returned Output: All of the values going down one value in the 2D array corresponding to the chart of dimming an image in this program
Functionality: All of the values in the 2D array should be one lower than before in the image brightness and displayed to the user. This would be done by iterating through each line of the 2D array and changing the value of the data stored in each line by one degree according to the brightness chart provided. Display to the user.


brighten() 4/24 Henry Jones
Input Parameters: 2D array, rows, count  and columns variables
Returned Output: Brightened 2D array with each value being brighter than the previous image.
Functionality: All of the values in the 2D array should be one higher than before in the image brightness and displayed to the user. This would be done by iterating through each line of the 2D array and changing the value of the data stored in each line by one degree according to the brightness chart provided. Display it to the user.



crop() 4/26 Jordan Perone
Input Parameters: 2D array, rows, count and columns variables
Returned Output: One less column and row on each side of the 2D array.
Functionality: This function should take the 2D array and manipulate it by taking out the first column and last column as well as the first row and last row of the image. You would iterate through these lines and take out their values. Display it to the user.





rotate() 4/26 Jordan Perone
Input Parameters: 2D array, rows, count and columns variables
Returned Output: Another 2D array rotated 90 degrees
Functionality: This function would operate by turning the rows into columns in reverse order as well as turning the columns into rows in reverse order. This would require iterating through each row and column and storing their index in reverse order as to rotate the image 90 degrees. Display it to the user.


openImage(){ 4/26 Henry Jones
Input Parameters: File pointer, 
Returned Output:None
Functionality: This function is responsible for opening the file that contains the 
Image and connecting with it. If the file cannot be connected with it will print a statement saying so.
 
displayImage(){ 4/26 Jordan Perone
Input Parameters: File pointer, int length, int height, char image[][height]
Returned Output:none
Functionality:This function will be responsible for converting the values of the file to the image displayed on the screen. It will convert the number values in the file to their corresponding character values.
